feat(contrib file): update to contributing and links to other resources (#440)
pyOpenSci/python-package-guide: documentation/repository-files/contributing-file.md

## CONTRIBUTING files lower barriers to entry

The contributing file lowers barriers to entry for new and seasoned contributors as it provides a roadmap.

- **For Contributors**: It provides clear instructions on contributing, from reporting issues to submitting pull requests.
- **For Maintainers**: It streamlines contributions by setting expectations and standardizing processes, reducing the time spent clarifying common questions or handling incomplete issues or pull requests.

Including a well-written CONTRIBUTING.md file in your project is one way of making it more welcoming and open to new and seasoned contributors. It also helps create a smoother workflow for everyone involved.

## Make it welcoming

Make the guide welcoming. Use accessible language to encourage participation from contributors of all experience levels. For example:

> - Avoid technical jargon or explain terms when necessary (e.g., "fork the repository").

Reviewer: We also avoid Latin abbreviations over in [CPython](https://devguide.python.org/documentation/style-guide/#use-simple-language) (and by many other [style guides](https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1343#issuecomment-2205563127)), "e.g." and "i.e." are often mixed up.

```suggestion
- Avoid technical jargon or explain terms when necessary (for example, "fork the repository").
```

Author: Thanks! I didn't realize that was an issue. I'll set up a rule for my local style guide!

- Include a friendly introduction, such as "Thank you for your interest in contributing! We're excited to collaborate with you."
- Highlight that all contributions, no matter how small, are valued.

## What a CONTRIBUTING.md file should contain

:::{admonition} Example contributing files
:class: tip

> - [pyGMT contributing file](https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/pygmt/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
> - [fatiando verde's contributing file](https://github.com/fatiando/verde/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Reviewer: Use project's own spelling:
```suggestion
- [PyGMT contributing file](https://github.com/GenericMappingTools/pygmt/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
- [Verde's contributing file](https://github.com/fatiando/verde/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
```

:::

Your Python package should include a file called **CONTRIBUTING.md** located in the
root of your repository next to [your **README.md** file](readme-file).

The CONTRIBUTING.md file should include information about:

- The types of contributions that you welcome

> > Example: We welcome contributions of all kinds. If you want to address an existing issue, check out our issues in this repository and comment on the one that you'd like to open to. Otherwise, you can open a new issue...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Example: We welcome contributions of all kinds. If you want to address an existing issue, check out our issues in this repository and comment on the one that you'd like to help with. Otherwise, you can open a new issue...
```

- How you'd like contributions to happen. Clearly outline your contribution process. For example:
  - Should contributors address open issues
  - Are new issues welcome?
  - Should contributors open a pull request (PR) directly or discuss changes first?

- Include instructions for the fork and pull request workflow, and link to resources or guides explaining these steps (if available).
- Guidelines that you have in place for users submitting issues, pull requests or asking questions.

> If you have a [development guide](development-guide), link to it. This guide should provide clear instructions on how to set up your development environment locally. It also should overview and CI tools that you have that could simplify the contribution process (e.g. pre-commit.ci bot, etc), linters, code formatters, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a [development guide](development-guide), link to it. This guide should provide clear instructions on how to set up your development environment locally. It also should overview local and CI tools that you have that could simplify the contribution process (e.g. pre-commit.ci bot, etc), linters, code formatters, etc.
```

> If you have a [development guide](development-guide), link to it. This guide should provide clear instructions on how to set up your development environment locally. It also should overview and CI tools that you have that could simplify the contribution process (e.g. pre-commit.ci bot, etc), linters, code formatters, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a [development guide](development-guide), link to it. This guide should provide clear instructions on how to set up your development environment locally. It also should overview and CI tools that you have that could simplify the contribution process (for example, pre-commit.ci bot), linters, code formatters, and so on.
```

> If you have a [development guide](development-guide), link to it. This guide should provide clear instructions on how to set up your development environment locally. It also should overview and CI tools that you have that could simplify the contribution process (for example, pre-commit.ci bot), linters, code formatters, and so on.

Author: ```suggestion
If you have a [development guide](development-guide), link to it. This guide should provide clear instructions on how to set up your development environment locally. It also should overview local and CI tools that you have that could simplify the contribution process (for example, pre-commit.ci bot), linters, code formatters, and so on.
```

Author: i tried to merge the comment but somehow broke things.

This guide should also include information for someone

> interested in asking questions. Some projects accept questions as GitHub or GitLab issues. Others use GitHub discussions, Discourse or even a discord server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interested in asking questions. Some projects accept questions as GitHub or GitLab issues. Others use GitHub discussions, Discourse or even a Discord server.
```
